---
date: "\\#OMPI_DATE\\#"
section: 3
title: MPI_Waitany
---

NAME
====

**MPI_Waitany** - Waits for any specified send or receive to complete.

SYNTAX
======

C Syntax
========

    #include <mpi.h>
    int MPI_Waitany(int count, MPI_Request array_of_requests[],
    	int *index, MPI_Status *status)

Fortran Syntax
==============

    USE MPI
    ! or the older form: INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
    MPI_WAITANY(COUNT, ARRAY_OF_REQUESTS, INDEX, STATUS, IERROR)
    	INTEGER	COUNT, ARRAY_OF_REQUESTS(*), INDEX
    	INTEGER	STATUS(MPI_STATUS_SIZE), IERROR

Fortran 2008 Syntax
===================

    USE mpi_f08
    MPI_Waitany(count, array_of_requests, index, status, ierror)
    	INTEGER, INTENT(IN) :: count
    	TYPE(MPI_Request), INTENT(INOUT) :: array_of_requests(count)
    	INTEGER, INTENT(OUT) :: index
    	TYPE(MPI_Status) :: status
    	INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: ierror

INPUT PARAMETERS
================

count

:   List length (integer).

array_of_requests

:   Array of requests (array of handles).

OUTPUT PARAMETERS
=================

index

:   Index of handle for operation that completed (integer). In the range
    0 to count-1. In Fortran, the range is 1 to count.

status

:   Status object (status).

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```

IERROR

:   Fortran only: Error status (integer).

DESCRIPTION
===========

A call to MPI_Waitany can be used to wait for the completion of one out
of several requests.

The array_of_requests list may contain null or inactive handles. If the
list contains no active handles (list has length zero or all entries are
null or inactive), then the call returns immediately with index =
MPI_UNDEFINED, and an empty status.

The execution of MPI_Waitany(count, array_of_requests, index, status)
has the same effect as the execution of
MPI_Wait(&array_of_requests\[i\], status), where i is the value returned
by index (unless the value of index is MPI_UNDEFINED). MPI_Waitany with
an array containing one active entry is equivalent to MPI_Wait.

If your application does not need to examine the *status* field, you can
save resources by using the predefined constant MPI_STATUS_IGNORE as a
special value for the *status* argument.

**Example:** Client-server code (starvation can occur).

        CALL MPI_COMM_SIZE(comm, size, ierr)
        CALL MPI_COMM_RANK(comm, rank, ierr)
        IF(rank .GT 0) THEN         ! client code
            DO WHILE(.TRUE.)
               CALL MPI_ISEND(a, n, MPI_REAL, 0, tag, comm, request, ierr)
               CALL MPI_WAIT(request, status, ierr)
            END DO
        ELSE         ! rank=0 -- server code
               DO i=1, size-1
                  CALL MPI_IRECV(a(1,i), n, MPI_REAL, i tag,
                           comm, request_list(i), ierr)
               END DO
               DO WHILE(.TRUE.)
                  CALL MPI_WAITANY(size-1, request_list, index, status, ierr)
                  CALL DO_SERVICE(a(1,index))  ! handle one message
                  CALL MPI_IRECV(a(1, index), n, MPI_REAL, index, tag,
                            comm, request_list(index), ierr)
               END DO
        END IF

ERRORS
======

Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value
of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.

Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler, MPI_File_set_errhandler, or
MPI_Win_set_errhandler (depending on the type of MPI handle that
generated the request); the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.

Note that per MPI-1 section 3.2.5, MPI errors on requests passed to
MPI_WAITANY do not set the status.MPI_ERROR field in the returned
status. The error code is passed to the back-end error handler and may
be passed back to the caller through the return value of MPI_WAITANY if
the back-end error handler returns it. The pre-defined MPI error handler
MPI_ERRORS_RETURN exhibits this behavior, for example.

SEE ALSO
========

MPI_Comm_set_errhandler\
MPI_File_set_errhandler\
MPI_Test\
MPI_Testall\
MPI_Testany\
MPI_Testsome\
MPI_Wait\
MPI_Waitall\
MPI_Waitsome\
MPI_Win_set_errhandler\
