---
date: "\\#OMPI_DATE\\#"
section: 3
title: MPI_Startall
---

NAME
====

**MPI_Startall** - Starts a collection of requests.

SYNTAX
======

C Syntax
========

    #include <mpi.h>
    int MPI_Startall(int count, MPI_Request array_of_requests[])

Fortran Syntax
==============

    USE MPI
    ! or the older form: INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
    MPI_STARTALL(COUNT, ARRAY_OF_REQUESTS, IERROR)
    	INTEGER	COUNT, ARRAY_OF_REQUESTS(*), IERROR

Fortran 2008 Syntax
===================

    USE mpi_f08
    MPI_Startall(count, array_of_requests, ierror)
    	INTEGER, INTENT(IN) :: count
    	TYPE(MPI_Request), INTENT(INOUT) :: array_of_requests(count)
    	INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: ierror

INPUT PARAMETER
===============

count

:   List length (integer).

INPUT/OUTPUT PARAMETER
======================

array_of_requests

:   Array of requests (array of handle).

OUTPUT PARAMETER
================

IERROR

:   Fortran only: Error status (integer).

DESCRIPTION
===========

Starts all communications associated with requests in array_of_requests.
A call to MPI_Startall(count, array_of_requests) has the same effect as
calls to MPI_Start (&array_of_requests\[i\]), executed for i=0 ,\...,
count-1, in some arbitrary order.

A communication started with a call to MPI_Start or MPI_Startall is
completed by a call to MPI_Wait, MPI_Test, or one of the derived
functions MPI_Waitany, MPI_Testany, MPI_Waitall, MPI_Testall,
MPI_Waitsome, MPI_Testsome (these are described in Section 3.7.5 of the
MPI-1 Standard, \"Multiple Completions\"). The request becomes inactive
after successful completion by such a call. The request is not
deallocated, and it can be activated anew by another MPI_Start or
MPI_Startall call.

A persistent request is deallocated by a call to MPI_Request_free (see
Section 3.7.3 of the MPI-1 Standard, \"Communication Completion\").

The call to MPI_Request_free can occur at any point in the program after
the persistent request was created. However, the request will be
deallocated only after it becomes inactive. Active receive requests
should not be freed. Otherwise, it will not be possible to check that
the receive has completed. It is preferable, in general, to free
requests when they are inactive. If this rule is followed, then the
persistent communication request functions will be invoked in a sequence
of the form,\

Create (Start Complete)\* Free\

where \* indicates zero or more repetitions. If the same communication
object is used in several concurrent threads, it is the user\'s
responsibility to coordinate calls so that the correct sequence is
obeyed.

A send operation initiated with MPI_Start can be matched with any
receive operation and, likewise, a receive operation initiated with
MPI_Start can receive messages generated by any send operation.

ERRORS
======

Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value
of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.

Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.

SEE ALSO
========

MPI_Bsend_init\
MPI_Rsend_init\
MPI_Send_init\
MPI_Ssend_init\
MPI_Recv_init\
MPI_Start\
MPI_Request_free
