# Name

    MPI_Type_create_f90_integer - Returns a bounded MPI integer datatype

# Syntax

## C Syntax

```c
#include <mpi.h>

int MPI_Type_create_f90_integer(int r, MPI_Datatype *newtype)
```

## Fortran Syntax

```fortran
USE MPI
! or the older form: INCLUDE 'mpif.h'

MPI_TYPE_CREATE_F90_INTEGER (R, NEWTYPE, IERROR)
    INTEGER    R, NEWTYPE, IERROR
```

## Fortran 2008 Syntax

```fortran
USE mpi_f08

MPI_Type_create_f90_integer(r, newtype, ierror)
    INTEGER, INTENT(IN) :: r
    TYPE(MPI_Datatype), INTENT(OUT) :: newtype
    INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: ierror
```


# Input Parameter

* `r` : Precision, in decimal digits (integer).

# Output Parameters

* `newtype` : New data type (handle).
* `IERROR` : Fortran only: Error status (integer).

# Description

This function provides a way to declare KIND-parameterized INTEGER MPI
datatypes. The argument is interpreted in a similar fashion to the F90
function `SELECTED_INT_KIND`: `r` must be a scalar integer, and represents
the desired level of numerical precision, in decimal digits.

# Notes

It is erroneous to supply a value for `r` not supported by the compiler.
The Fortran function `SELECTED_INT_KIND` maps a large number of `r` values
to a much smaller number of KIND parameters supported by the compiler.
KIND parameters are not specified by the language and are not portable.
From the point of view of the language, variables of the same base type
and KIND parameter are equivalent, even if their KIND parameters were
generated by different `r` arguments to `SELECTED_INT_KIND`. However, to
help facilitate interoperability in a heterogeneous environment,
equivalency is more strictly defined for datatypes returned by
`MPI_Type_create_f90_integer`. Two MPI datatypes, each generated by this
function, will match if and only if they have identical values for r.
The interaction between the datatypes returned by this function and the
external32 data representation - used by `MPI_Pack_external,`
`MPI_Unpack_external` and many `MPI_File` functions - is subtle. The
external32 representation of returned datatypes is as follows.
        if (r > 38):
            external32 size = n/a (undefined)
        else if (r > 18):
            external32 size = 16
        else if (r > 9):
            external32 size = 8
        else if (r > 4):
            external32 size = 4
        else if (r > 2):
            external32 size = 2
        else:
            external32 size = 1
If the external32 representation of a datatype is undefined, so are the
results of using that datatype in operations that require the external32
format. Care should be taken not to use incompatible datatypes
indirectly, e.g., as part of another datatype or through a duplicated
datatype, in these functions.
If a variable is declared specifying a nondefault KIND value that was
not obtained with `SELECTED_INT_KIND` (i.e., `r` is unknown), the only way
to obtain a matching MPI datatype is to use the functions `MPI_Sizeof` and
`MPI_Type_match_size.`

# Errors

Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value
of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
`MPI_Comm_set_errhandler`; the predefined error handler `MPI_ERRORS_RETURN`
may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.
See the MPI man page for a full list of MPI error codes.

# See Also

[`MPI_Pack_external(3)`](./?file=MPI_Pack_external.md)
[`MPI_Sizeof(3)`](./?file=MPI_Sizeof.md)
[`MPI_Type_match_size(3)`](./?file=MPI_Type_match_size.md)
[`MPI_Unpack_external(3)`](./?file=MPI_Unpack_external.md)
    SELECTED_INT_KIND
